Please stop launching new campaigns.
People mistake activity with results. If
I'm doing more, then of course I'm going
to yield more results. It's actually
even worse because because you're doing
more, you're exerting more energy. And
because you're more exerting more energy
and there's more things in in work, that
means there's more planning, there's
more workflows, there's more resource
allocation. It's like a lot. And the
reality is is like you can never escape
the 8020 rule. 20% of your actions will
yield 80% of your results.
Hey everybody, welcome to episode 3 of
performance therapy. Today we're talking
about scaling blind. Uh how you know the
myth of just spend more and everything
will work out. And we really want to
talk today about like how to know when
you're ready for scale and how to avoid
lighting your budget on fire. So,
Gonzalo, this is a another spicy one for
our therapy session today on uh scaling
and and how people just it's it's
criminal honestly like the the amount of
wasteful spend that these companies do
in terms of like how they're investing
and and just like basic fundamentals are
just not in place. So, I want you to
kick us off with your thoughts. Like
what comes to mind uh when it comes to
just like the myth of just spend more
and and scaling.
>> It's it's keeping yourself busy
essentially like and you're seeing
scaling scaling in terms of scaling
results. But when I see companies
scaling is they're scaling the number of
channels they're running on, they're
scaling the number of campaigns. So the
scaling you're talking about and that
directly translates to pipeline and
revenue and scaling your paid media
performance, it's not necessarily the
scaling definition that brands follow.
>> They they see people talking about and
I'm getting ahead of one of the the
topics we had, but you you usually see
people talking about oh I or for example
in our case, we launched the Reddit ads
course. our our team member Chris is
putting a lot of Reddit content out
there. Like someone might be seeing that
content and they'll ping the agency
guys. Let's run ads on Reddit. Let's
scale that channel.
>> Sorry for everybody that's getting those
things.
>> Yeah. You know, like, oh, I see Reddit.
This guy's talking about Reddit. Do the
course. Let's launch a campaign on
Reddit. Let's let's start scaling your
paid media program. When maybe you have
$10,000 to spend. So that's scaling
activities but not scaling your
effectiveness. So to me when I hear
scaling, it might still be like keeping
yourself running on one channel, maybe
two channels. You're still scaling and
unlocking all the possibilities you have
there before you actually unlock another
channel. So that's that's the difference
for me when I hear scaling that
>> it might not be the same definition. you
maximized all the possible value that
this channel can provide to you and now
you're ready for the next one.
>> Yeah. And when you're saying let's scale
your paid media program, maybe scaling
your paid media program might not
necessarily mean you need to unlock
another channel. Might be okay, let's
just do more on LinkedIn.
>> Maybe we're not doing enough because
maybe we didn't have the budget or for
whatever reason, the strategy, whatever.
So, let's scale the paid media program.
Yes. But that might mean let's just do
more of what we're doing already. Not
necessarily. Let's keep ourselves busy,
create a huge bottleneck with our
creative team because now you're running
ads on Reddit. Now you're running ads, I
don't know, maybe you're trying Tik Tok,
whatever. Yeah.
>> And now the team is busy doing a lot of
stuff that doesn't necessarily impact
your your results, which was the ideal
outcome because I don't think brands ask
this just because they really think
that's how they will reach their goals.
Mhm.
>> But yeah, more often than not, that's
just not the case.
>> I there's like a couple things that are
speaking in my brain right now. It's
like shiny object syndrome.
>> Yeah.
>> I think what you're touching on, right?
You're
>> you're running ads on Google and then
you know, you see a post on LinkedIn and
you're like, "Oh, Microsoft is crushing
it. We need to go on Microsoft now."
Right? And then you jump to Microsoft
and then you're jumping to Reddit or
whatever the case might be. But it's
like that FOMO of missing out where hey
if we're not spending money on these
other platforms we're not reaching
people that we should be and ultimately
we're not going to be successful for it
which is it's a it's a good intention
but it can result in absolute disaster
because at the end of the day with paid
ads you only have a finite amount of
budget. So you have to be much more
careful with the decisions you make and
how you spend that budget. And when you
start to invest in all these different
channels and the amount of channels
grows, but your budget stays the same,
then you start to run into some problems
where now the things that were
performing well for you stop performing
as well as they could be because you're
taking money from the things that were
actually producing real returns for you.
Right? And I think one other thing just
to kind of dive into this is the
difficulty of going from 0 to one and
how that compares going from 1 to 10.
Mhm.
>> Zero to one is the hardest place to be
in my experience. So for context, I've
never ran ads on LinkedIn before. I've
never done ABM. I need to go from zero
to one. That's hard because basically
the level of certainty is low. And the
perceived risk is extremely high, right?
You have no benchmarks, nothing to fall
back on. Like it is truly
innovation in its finest, right? You're
you're starting from blank canvas. So
for a lot of folks, they go 0ero to one.
They're not really happy with what one
looks like. And then instead of saying
like, okay, let's make it better if
there's like some good things here.
Which this by the way is called the
process of optimization, right? They're
like, no, let's go and do 0ero to one in
a completely different context, right?
Somewhere else because of FOMO, shiny
object syndrome, and you know, etc.,
etc. So if you are in this trap of FOMO
and shiny object syndrome,
what I recommend is that you just set up
a few rules. Rules are helpful because
they give us a context of when how we
should behave in certain situations. So
one rule that I I invite everyone to
adopt is around your budget allocation.
And what we usually advise clients is
just allocate
at minimum 10% of your budget for this
0ero to one experimentation. So for like
these crazy ideas, all the FOMO your
brain can allow, right? Like 10% of your
monthly budget can go to this. 90% of
your budget goes to the things that are
boring. They're no longer sexy because
you already figured it out and now it's
just like the the grind of optimizing
and like iterations and you know what I
mean? and all this it's lost its you
know uh appeal
>> but it's paying the bills. So 90% of
your budget goes towards that and and to
your point like doing more right but
also better in that contrast and then
that 10% okay let's let's go wild right
and and do everything we got to do.
Yeah, that's why I think scaling and
and having that FOMO are related because
that's how brands think about it. When
they think about scaling, it's not it's
never about, okay, what can we do more
here and like how can we do more of what
we're already doing? It's more so, okay,
what other channels can we run? You
know, I know our audience spends time on
meta. Why don't we try meta
>> and then they don't have the budget
because to your point, they don't they
don't they don't have that alignment to
okay, let's just put 10% of the budget,
5% of the budget aside for that. It's
like okay, let's take budget of what
what's already working towards that new
initiative. Then they let it run for a
few few weeks, few months. It doesn't
work. Maybe because it was a losing
fight from the beginning and now meta
>> doesn't work. Yeah,
>> that's what happens, you know, and it
was never you never gave it a chance.
>> So, and I see and I see a lot of brands
making that that mistake. Like again,
the intention is great, but they're just
keeping themselves busy launching that
success because maybe that's how their
bosses are also measuring their own
success. Like if you have a person
that's dedicated to run the relationship
with the agency, you need to keep these
guys busy, you know?
>> Yeah. But busy work doesn't equal
results. So that's why if the client
wants us to scale or wants whatever
agency in housing, whatever to scale,
it's one thing, but if you want us to do
work, that's that might be another. And
sometimes they're not related. Sometimes
they might be. You might find specific
use cases of course. Um few exceptions,
but yeah, that's why I think those two
are related because especially if you're
a marketer, you spend a lot of time on
LinkedIn, you have peers, you're in
Slack groups, right? you're in
communities and it's it's easy to feel
like whatever it's like social media,
right? At the end of the day, it is
you're seeing like the example you gave
in the other episode about the gym. Like
you're seeing this guy lifting more than
you, but you don't know their goals. You
don't know how what they're doing, what
they're eating, you know, and maybe
you're just showing up to the gym. It's
your first time and
>> you're comparing yourself.
>> Yeah. You're comparing yourself with
others. and and maybe and I'm not even
take taking this into account but maybe
the experience that others are sharing
sometimes it's not true as well
>> and now you're comparing yourself with
>> like social like social media it's like
that like you only post your highlights
you don't post okay we unlocked Reddit
but how many tries did you give Reddit
it wasn't at the first time
>> and and yeah like when it comes to
scaling that's why too the the first
thing that I that I try to advise the
clients on And even the team it's like
okay what are we doing already can we do
more of that like for example Google
search and getting specific here this
campaign is working can we put more
budget there okay we can't okay let's go
to the next one have we maximize all the
options in terms of what we think can
can drive the impact um yes okay so now
let's try to try something new for
example when it comes to Google another
um launching campaigns with another
match types you're running exact match
let's try phrase match Okay, now you're
testing. Let's try broad match if
anything. Okay, you're testing. But even
if that doesn't work, you already have a
good foundation. So you don't have all
the eggs in one basket, which is
awesome. But at the same time, you're
still in Google search. You're not
launching YouTube videos, you know?
Yeah. So, and and if you don't have that
that mindset and you don't have those
priorities figured out in your head, you
can also cause your team to feel
overwhelmed because now these guys need
to produce videos
>> and the work it takes to build like
those types of assets. Sometimes it's
the impact that will have in the overall
strategy is super super reduced. So when
you're talking about scaling, you first
need to maximize all the options you
have available based on what's already
working and don't don't get distracted
because what's working for you might not
work for others and what's working for
others might not work for you. So um
yeah, that's that's what I what I see
most of the time. So scaling, yes, but
>> responsibly.
>> Yeah, responsibly. and be smart about it
because if you're already seeing some
level of success, at least from my
experience, it's much easier to show and
make the case internally like guys, we
spend 10k in this campaign, this
channel, whatever, we got 10 MQLs based
on our baselines right now in the past
30, 60 days. If we spend 15K, we can get
this versus, okay, give me 5K for a new
channel
>> and let's figure out what I can give
you, you know? Yeah, there's something
that I I want to emphasize here, which
is please stop launching new campaigns.
This is like a public service
announcement.
Often times, at least in our experience,
is and you you touched on this is people
mistake activity with results. If I'm
doing more, then of course I'm going to
yield more results. And the reality and
and this is something that I'm so guilty
of especially like you know running ad
conversion is I will overload the team
and I'll overwork them with so many
different projects and initiatives
sorry where I'm like oh I've got this
idea I've got this idea right and I'm
like throwing all this stuff and the
reality is is like you can never escape
the 8020 rule 20% of your actions will
yield 80% of your results and no matter
how many times I try to like ignore this
fundamental rule it always comes back
around. And what happens is like you
it's actually even worse because because
you're doing more you're exerting more
energy and because you're more exerting
more energy and there's more things in
in work that means there's more planning
there's more workflows there's more
resource allocation it's like a lot you
know
>> more bottlenecks more problems exactly
and and one of the fundamental
differences between paid media and
organic or or email and all these other
channels is with paid media we are
trying to create some level of
predictability. We want to build a
system to the best of our ability that
is foundated on a strategy that makes
sense for our business and it's aligned
with our our stakeholders where we can
put somebody into our system and drive a
meaningful business impact on the other
side. That's what we're trying to do
fundamentally. So when people are
launching all these new campaigns and
they don't have a strategy in place and
it doesn't connect, they're basically
going zero to one, zero to one, zero to
one again, again, again, again, like
across all these channels. They never
really find success and then they're
back where they started, right? And
really what you want to do and what this
looks like in practice is like if if
we're running webinars and we get
webinars to work really well on
LinkedIn, for example, and it's crushing
it and we've really like mapped out that
system. Now, when we go to meta, we're
not saying, "Oh, we're here in in metal
land, you know, like what are we gonna
do?" And then we just start from
absolute scratch.
>> Yeah.
>> We go, "Oh, webinars work for us on
LinkedIn. Let's use webinars on Meta."
Right? Because fundamentally, you're
still going after the same person.
You're just meeting them in a different
platform, right? So, now what you're
doing is you're you're tailoring the
creative and the targeting, etc., based
on the nuances of that platform. But
you're driving them to the same
destination, which is that offer, that
system that you created that is working
for you. Like an analogy here to kind of
explain is like imagine you were a
travel agent and you had a quota to get
more people to book a trip to the
Bahamas. Like the Bahamas is your offer,
right? It's the experience. It's the
system, right? That you're like, if you
go here, you're going to be happy.
You're going to have a great time,
right? And now what you're doing is
you're going to all these different
channels aka uh destinations, right?
Maybe you fly to Canada and like you're
trying to get Canadians and sell them to
go to the Bahamas, right? That could be
your LinkedIn, right? And then you're
going to Meta, right? And now you're
going to another place in the world and
you're trying to get them, etc. But
you're again, you're driving them into
the same system. And that always gets
missed. And the cool thing about like
scaling paid media is it takes less
effort than scaling organic content and
content. One of the biggest lies is that
content doesn't require money or time.
It requires a ton of both. Especially if
you want to do content well at scale. It
requires money in the sense of like uh
you know production cost, your personal
hours invested in it,
>> resources, headcount, etc. There's a lot
of moving parts. And with paid media,
you have much more simplicity in terms
of the system you create. Right? I need
a really good target audience. I need a
really good ad. And I need a really good
offer. If I nail those three things, I
can create something meaningful here,
right? Where I drive some sort of
response that I want. Um, and and just
to segue here, when you fall into the
trap of like this shiny object syndrome,
and we're beating this with a dead horse
because this is like the number one
thing, you know, that if you take
anything from this show, it's this is
budget dilution.
>> Uhhuh.
>> Can you talk quickly about budget
dilution and like what launching more
campaigns happens on on the budget side?
Yeah, it's pretty straightforward. So,
if you have like $100 a day to spend on
LinkedIn, you have one campaign, you
have three ads under that campaign. So,
your $100 are spent. I mean, you can
arrange the settings how you want, but
in theory, you can have that one those
$100 split equally across those three
ads. Now, you launch a new campaign, but
you still have those $100. So, now each
campaign dividing equally gets 50. But
now each ad gets less. So if that first
campaign was already working and now you
launch the second that means and it's
math the campaign that was working gets
less budget on a daily basis for that
new campaign that sometimes it's a brand
new thing but now the problem is that
some brands don't stop there.
>> Now they might launch six ads under one
campaign. So until you actually get the
learnings you start diluting the budget
even more. So each each um so one
campaign one ad that's like different
layers you're adding different
complexity layers and yeah at the end of
the day it's math the more campaigns you
add if your budget stays the same you're
eventually going to take budget out of
top performing campaigns to the
detriment of others and the problem when
it comes to B2B SAS is that if you're
running um like if your offer is trying
to get demos getting meetings with your
sales team right and your cost is $1,000
per demo and you spend $100 a day on
LinkedIn, you can see how long on
average it's going to take you to get
one demo, like 10 days. But if you're
spending 50 now, it takes 20.
>> So, it's not even a matter of if it's
working or not. Maybe the sample size
will be low and if the goal is driving
demos, the problem that I see sometimes
is you might be launching one campaign.
Oh, here's a piece of content like
here's this white paper that our team
has been working on for the past three
months. we need to promote it. Uh ah but
it doesn't fit your goals. Yeah, but we
need to the team put a lot of effort
into it. Now my boss is breathing down
my neck. They really need this live. So
okay, let's do it. It's your money. But
you see the problem because now you're
taking budget of something that's
working at it's not just that it's
working. It's something that fits within
your goals just to accommodate a push
from someone internally that sometimes
>> first of all doesn't really understand
how paid media works because when
they're pushing that they don't even
think oh these guys are going to be
taking budget out of the top performing
campaigns you know they don't think
about that neither they have to but
that's what happens and and yeah that's
the complexity like the more campaigns
you launch um the more the the larger
your budget needs to be the problem is
that whenever If you're launching, if
you're running 10 campaigns on LinkedIn
with 100k budget a month and next month
you have 20 campaigns, your budget won't
increase uh proportionally, right? It
will most likely stay the same.
>> Do more with less.
>> Yeah. And those new campaigns will
distract you from your goal. That's
first. And then it will be a lot of
activity. And then one thing that we're
not even taking into account here is the
what it takes to actually keep those
campaigns running. because now you have
other ads you need to refresh more
often. So the team needs to be worrying
about that stuff as well. So you're
doing more you're taking budget out of
what's already working at at what cost,
right? And
>> that makes yeah
>> that's that's what I what I see often
and again some the people that push this
internally don't don't really take that
into account and that's fine
>> but that's where we need to step in or
the the performance teams in house to to
put a pause on that you I know you you
said it first like stop launching new
campaigns that's a good that's a good
clip right there but that's that's often
the case because if you're spending $100
a day more often than not that campaign
can get 200 can get 300 00.
>> Yeah,
>> but that sometimes that doesn't happen
because what you're doing is, oh, this
is working. Let's launch this new
campaign. Let's launch this new asset.
And
>> you're just diluting your budget and
spreading yourself too thin. And that's
the issue I see I see often. It might
sound like basic, but sometimes that's
what stops you from getting to the next
level because you keep doing what you
were doing before, launching a lot of
stuff, keeping yourself busy, which also
gives the internal teams the wrong
signals like, oh, whatever these guys
are doing isn't working. Let's give them
new ads. Yes.
>> And now you get into this vicious cycle,
right?
>> You attack the problem with activity
versus attacking the problem with just
like fundamental strategy and like
>> math, right? of of does our budget make
sense in relation to the amount of
campaigns we have.
>> Mhm. Yeah. And now it's a vicious cycle
because now your team, your internal
team was educated to operate from that
assumption. So, oh, whatever Silva is
running isn't working. Let me build
Sylvia new ads
>> and maybe Sylvia doesn't need new ads.
You know, Sil needs less ads,
>> right?
>> But um
>> no one talks about that. Everyone's
always like, you need more ads, you need
to launch more things, etc. And there's
like um yeah, there's definitely a big
misnomer. One one tip for everyone if
you're falling into that trap and you've
been nodding your head the whole way
through is when you start any paid media
program, the first thing you want to do
is you actually want to set up a
strategy. And if you guys want to go
deeper on this, check out our building a
paid media program course. We talk about
this at length. Um, but essentially the
first step is you want to establish a
strategy. A strategy is just a plan and
on that plan you want to show based on
your segmentation how much budget is
going to go for each thing. So for
context like if you're in the situation
where you have multiple stakeholders and
you know Sally has her needs, Suzanne
has hers, John has his etc. You can
basically allocate a specific amount of
budget just for those different
stakeholders and their initiatives. And
then you can communicate to the
stakeholders and say hey you only get X
amount of dollars. That's your limit.
And based on that, a simple way to
calculate how many campaigns can I
actually support without diluting my
budget is just take your monthly budget,
divide it by 30.4, and then take the
difference and then divide that by $100.
So assuming you have $100 per campaign,
that whatever that number is, that is
the amount of campaigns that you can
successfully support. And then assuming
each campaign gets at least three ads,
now you know how many ads you need as
well. And basically what you can do with
that is now you can go to that
stakeholder and you can say you only get
five campaigns, you know, because if I
give you a six campaign, right? And
remember this is assuming $100 a day. It
gets even lower when the campaign starts
to perform well because now that 100 you
see positive signals and you're like,
"Oh, I need to take it from 100, 150 to
200."
>> Mhm.
>> Right. So that means now you've got to
take money from the other four, right,
to support the one that's doing very
well. So at the end of the day, like the
budget is the thing that is really going
to limit your options available, right?
And how much you can or can't do. And
the main thing that I think we're trying
to say here is like just don't fall into
the trap of doing so much to the
detriment of like your fundamental
financial means where you're never going
to have a chance to actually be
successful, right? And and drive some
meaningful stuff. So I think um
>> and just to add real fast, sorry to cut
you off, but you had an important point
there. It's not just because oh I can
afford to run five campaigns that it
means you must run five campaigns
because to your point if you're running
five campaigns and that's where you can
afford assuming $100 a day per campaign
or 50 whatever it is. Um when it's time
to scale, which is the the end topic,
right? If you already have five
campaigns, there's there's only so much
you can do with your existing budget.
And now it's harder to to show
internally like oh let's pause these
three campaigns to scale these two.
Okay, why can you show me why those
campa how those campaigns are
performing? What's happening? Because
maybe and they might have different
KPIs, but they might be performing to a
degree, but the way they are performing
might not be or the metrics those are
driving might not be the metrics you
care about. But just because now you're
analyzing those, you can't really make
the case. Like let's look at a really
silly metric for this example, like
engagement rate. You're looking, you're
wanting to drive leads pipeline and
those campaigns are optimizing for
engagement because it's top of the
funnel, whatever it is. And now in terms
of engagement rate, those are performing
above average.
>> But what you care about at the end of
the day is leads, MQLs, pipeline, but
now you're making it hard on yourself to
pause those campaigns because
based on their magics, they're doing
well, right?
>> It's just different the different KPIs.
And the the assumption that I see
sometimes is like, okay, we can afford
five campaigns. Let me think about five
different offers, you know.
>> Yes.
>> When in reality, ah, okay, we can afford
five. Let's aim for three. Instead of
100, let's do 150. Because depending on
your audience size, and for the folks
running ads on LinkedIn, you see that
$100 a day is not that much.
>> Yeah. Exactly.
>> And you might exhaust that like by the
time you wake up,
>> you're done.
>> Yeah. By the time you wake up, it's
done,
>> right?
>> And yeah, like Yeah. Take it as a rule
of thumb. And I know it might sound like
a lot of math like divided by 30.4, but
it's it's pretty straightforward. But
more importantly than that, it's like a
a rule of thumb. It's not a rule. It
doesn't mean like, okay, I can afford
five, I'll do five. Or I can afford 10,
I'll do 10. No, this is your ideal max,
but aim for less. So you have the room
to eventually scale what's working well.
Otherwise, it's each campaign gets $100.
Let's keep it going until until you
pause them, right? there's not really
much you're doing on a daily basis if
your ends are tied.
>> Yeah. So now that we talked about uh you
know more so around the systemic piece
of it which I think fundamentally this
is what we see most B2B SAS companies
like just get wrong around effort versus
you know really what what we're talking
about here is not just ROI but ROE like
your return on effort right for every
hour I put into this thing am I
maximizing the utility of it right let's
segue now into some other things around
like traps to avoid to not burn your
budget in the process of scaling. What
comes to mind?
>> Launching too many campaigns.
>> I mean, other than that, of course,
>> that's the biggest thing. Yeah.
>> Uh, what else? Like that I I think we
covered a few of them. Like that shiny
object, that's a trap because I mean,
we've already went through it. Um, yeah,
those are the big ones that come to mind
to be honest. Yeah, I would I would just
say one other one just to like iterate
it because you touched on it like
briefly, but I really want to make sure
that this is uh very clear is you said,
"Oh, if I know it works, then I'm going
to do this."
Know it works
>> is very important, right? To know if
you're ready to scale, right? To to not
burn budget in the process. So, to know
it works, that's it sounds simple, but
there's a lot of things that are uh you
know, kind of depending on that. Number
one, that you have actual conversion
tracking in place. you know that I can
understand hey this thing is actually
performing and it's causing the events
that I care about right people are
responding the way that I want that's
one thing the second thing is that you
have that dashboard right where you can
connect your ad activities to revenue so
you understand hey yes this is a good
return on my on my effort and on my
investment you know and then finally is
that your team is ready for it
>> which you also touched on you know like
do you have the resources
>> to substantiate that next level of scale
scale because budget ultimately is just
it comes down to the amount of options
you have available and how fast you can
go through the options, right? It's
speed. So, if I'm spending $100 a day
and I need to get to $300 max before
pausing an ad, it's going to take me
three days, right? And that's assuming
there's one ad variable, right? You
split it by three now, it takes you
three three times as long and and so on
and so forth. So now if you go from
spending $100 a day to $1,000 a day, you
might need new ads by like day three,
you know, then now it it's just like
implementing that means like now you
might need two creative refreshes per
week,
>> you know, like so now that the the
resources involved just like scales
dramatically and most SAS companies are
not even close
>> to that, you know, but just to show you
guys like what is the maximum of this,
right? like what is the you know the
ultimate version of this look like so
you can kind of backfactor
>> and there's one thing that we're not
even taking into account which is having
the tough conversations to put a hold on
those conversations because no one wants
to be on the other side when the client
or your boss comes in and says oh Sylvia
launch this oh actually I don't think we
should because it might perceive you as
lazy oh this guy doesn't want to do it
when in reality you don't think it's
best right so even though it's not
really like having those tough
conversations even if it's 20 minutes,
30 minutes, it also gets you a high
return on effort.
>> Yeah.
>> Because if you don't say it any anything
or if you just nod, you don't say yes or
you don't say no, but you just take it,
they assume it's going to get done.
>> And now the mental space it takes after
the call like oh I should have said that
now I have to launch all these three
campaigns. It doesn't that sense
>> it will disrupt the performance. And
also too, because now if you didn't say
anything, even something as simple as
like, "Oh, let me check if it aligns and
I'll follow up with you." Just don't
take it. If if you don't say anything
and you follow up after or a couple of
days after and saying, "Oh, guys,
actually, I I thought about it a little
bit more. I don't think we should." By
that time, it might already be too late
because the team already started working
on it. So, the power of and that's
ongoing, right? the power of keeping the
client honest and keeping them grounded.
The client, your boss, again, I'm
speaking to my reality in this case, but
there's a lot of it that outside of
clicking on ads, launching campaigns.
It's more like communication with the
client that can can get you a long way
and put a pause on all those initiatives
because sometimes and people don't even
want order takers. they are bringing it
up because again the intention is great
and in their head it makes sense but
you're the person on the other side
doing the media arbitrage launching
looking at the strategy looking at the
dashboard like you're saying you're the
one looking at the data on a daily basis
they're not
>> so if you don't think it fits you should
say it and again if I don't mean this to
say there should be a lot of back and
forth or like a discussion but if at the
end of the day they still want to go
forward fine it's their budget but you
advise them not to right
>> and because I've been on the other side
where oh I should have said that stuff
and now I'm launching the campaigns I
was
>> and you're just like you're like
reluctant to do it and you're just doing
>> because you're launching stuff that you
already think it won't work. That's the
the worst one of the worst feelings that
you can have as a performance marketer,
right? Oh, I'm spending this next hour
launching this stuff that
>> won't will suck. Yeah, but I I didn't
say it. Now I need to launch it. Now
I'll need to analyze it to say it's
useless when I put maybe should have put
a put a hold on that right from the
beginning right
>> and that comes with time of course but
>> I think that's one of the biggest
differences between like a new
performance marketer and a seasoned one
>> or really just like a junior versus an
expert is the junior will just take
things at face value. the senior will
dig deeper and ask fundamentally why and
like does it make sense and then stand
their ground to defend their position
where yeah I mean eventually like you're
here to serve your employer or your
client yeah
>> and you have to be flexible but if you
do move forward under those
circumstances where you're like hey this
launching these campaigns makes
absolutely no sense like I can show you
the math but they're like hey I know it
doesn't make sense but hey politics you
know what I mean we just got to get it
live or whatever And they respect you
even more.
>> They respect you more. And then not only
that, when it eventually fails,
>> you're not blamed.
>> I told you I'm good. Hey, you know,
like, you know, it's like your insurance
policy, which on that note, like one
insurance policy that every B2B marketer
needs is an aligned strategy plan where
you map out, and we've kind of talked
about this in some earlier episodes,
where you map out exactly, okay, for
every initiative, here's the budget and
the corresponding campaigns, etc. You
map it all out and then you get it in
front of the people that matter, the
stakeholders, so you get buy in early.
This is something that I recommend
everyone does before the new quarter
starts. So when you do the the you know
the next quarter planning, you put
together this plan, you do the forecast
and you get buyin from all these
individuals. So now moving into the
quarter that you've got this stamp of
approval, you go back to it. This is
your shield, right? So like because
people will forget, you know, they're
going to forget. It's they're not going
to remember how much budget they have.
They're going to get lost in the, you
know, the the the dayto-day of startup
life.
>> They look at it every day. They don't.
>> Right. Exactly. So, you need
>> for us but not for them.
>> You need to constantly bring them back
to like grounding of them like, "Hey,
hey, hey, hey, wait, wait a second. You
remember when we aligned on this thing,
you know, and and bring them back, etc."
And the other thing too on that in terms
of being able to scale, scaling more
implies that you're going to be doing
more of what works and that also implies
a budget increase. And one of the
easiest ways to secure more budget from
stakeholders is to create this plan, get
buy in, and then show them the results
afterwards, right? Like, hey, here's
what worked, here's what didn't. And if
you can show them and give them more
certainty, they're going to give you
more budget to make that thing happen.
And one other like tactical tip that uh
I really recommend for everyone in-house
listening that's like super clutch. I
used to do it is like put together a
monthly newsletter where you share
what's working in paid media like what
worked and what didn't work. And
especially when it comes to like ads,
everybody loves to give their opinion on
ads like, "Oh, that one I think that one
is good, that one's bad." And, you know,
you can have fun with it. But basically,
every month you're sharing with the
people that matter and I and ideally
it's, you know, like companywide if
possible. So, like you're building more
and more certainty with these people,
you know, because you can show them,
hey, we tested these five things last
month. This was our priority. Here's how
it performed, etc. Here's what worked.
Here's what didn't work. So fast forward
at the end of the quarter, the worst
place you can be in is performance
doesn't work. You're at the end of the
quarter and people are caught by
surprised. That is the worst place.
That's like scary. You know what I mean?
So ideally, if the quarter doesn't go
well by the end of the quarter, no one's
surprised and they're just like, "Okay,
what are we going to do to fix this?"
Right? How do we go from here?
Let's um let's touch on a topic here
around the battle of scaling versus
profitability because I think this is an
important one because there's there's a
a dichotomy, right? Like I want to drive
more aka more leads, more trials, more
demos, whatever, more ops, but I also
want it for a lower cost. And people
don't realize like as you scale, what
you're doing is you're opening up your
targeting fundamentally, right? So
there's two ways you can scale like
fundamentally speaking. There's vertical
scaling and there's horizontal scaling.
So vertical scaling is all about like
increasing budget. It's basically this
campaign is working. How do I maximize
the utility of this campaign? So that
means I can increase my budget to drive
more volume, right? It means I can tweak
my audience for that existing campaign
so that I can increase my audience size.
It means I can increase my bids so that
I'm able to drive more impressions,
right? Etc. and buy more inventory, be
more competitive in the marketplace.
This is all around vertical scaling and
maximizing an individual thing.
Horizontal scaling is where now I'm
launching more campaigns, right? And
this could be in the form of like within
a an existing channel across a different
channel. And and we kind of touched on
this earlier, but I always laugh when
people tell me they're like, I've done
everything I can do on Google. I have
scaled Google Ads. And I'm just like,
have you really like not to nerd out too
much here, but like there's 42 ways you
can scale Google ads. Uh, you know, when
you think about like the the horizontal
scaling. So you have like non-brand,
brand, competitive, rsa, DSA, right?
Those are all just different themes of
campaigns on search. And then like
that's not to include also vertical
scaling where now you can go exact
match, phrase match, broad discovery,
broad match. And I'm like, you did all
that? And they're like, oh, wait a
second. And I just did like high intent
exact match, you know what I mean? And
I'm like, okay, like there's a lot of
opportunity to be had, you know? So,
closing on this point around like
profitability and scaling, just be very
mindful like as you scale, what you're
essentially doing is you're letting in
inefficiencies, right? You're basically
saying, "Give me more. Show my ads to
more people fundamentally, right?
Whether it's through the the increment
of budget or like adjusting of
targeting, but you're saying show me to
more people." And that means like now
you need to go through the process of
optimization to weed out which are the
people that are not a good fit versus
those that are. So generally speaking as
you scale you start to see like volume
goes up which is fantastic but the
associated cost also goes up. So one
just quick thing to close on here is set
some optimization rules for yourself.
Set some guard rails on what is
acceptable versus what is not. And one
easy thing that we always recommend to
clients is figure out what is your break
even cost per lead. So for context like
I remember when I was at um I think it
was when I was at metadata we were
we were like unhappy with the cost per
demo for some of our campaigns. I think
like our conversation ad campaign was
driving a dramatically lower cost per
demo. I think it was like I don't
remember it was like 400 500 but it was
like lower. And then our image ad
campaign was driving demos for like a
thousand. And we were like, "Oh, the
image ad campaigns suck because the
conversation one is doing, you know,
like it's driving more volume at half
the cost."
>> And then what we did is we paused the
image ad one and we focused on the
conversation ad one,
>> but overall we lost because the image ad
one was actually driving volume, you
know, but we we turned it off because we
were comparing it against our best
performing campaign, right? And ad. And
that's a losing game. Really what you're
trying to do as you scale is you're
trying to launch more and more things
where the cumulative performance is
greater than the individual part. Right?
So for context like in that instance
it's like the e-commerce of like oh I've
got a 700% rorowaz. It's like fantastic
how many sales did you make you know? Oh
I got three sales at 700%. It's like
great but like you're never going to get
anywhere. Yeah. you know, versus like
the pros in e-commerce, they're like,
I'll take a 200% rorowaz or even a break
even rorowaz on the front end, but I'm
driving a thousand sales a month.
>> Yeah.
>> You know what I mean? And then they know
they're going to make up the value over
the lifetime of that customer, right?
And and pay it back. So for you, if
you're listening to this, like figure
out your break even. So in that
hypothetical example I was sharing, in
our case, I think the break even was
like 3,000 at the time. So, we were like
complaining about a thousand when the
reality is we could spend two times
more, right, to get to our break even.
Doesn't mean you have to hit break even.
Just depends on how aggressive you want
to be.
>> But at the end of the day, it is an
auction, right? There is a an element of
competitiveness. So, you need to make
sure you're being competitive enough to
drive the volume you want. Uh there's
like an old saying from um Dan Kennedy.
It's like he who affords he who can
afford to spend the most to acquire a
customer wins. And it's true. So, if
you're willing to spend up to a,000, but
I'm willing to spend up to 3,000, I'm
going to beat you, you know? So, this is
like where knowing your numbers is super
important. And then you can set these
guardrails, these optimization rules, so
that you scale responsibly.
>> Yeah, that's a good tip. And that that's
where most brands fail, too, because
they don't know the numbers and they
might get scared with a 4,000 CPL and
maybe they can afford 10,000 CPL
depending on your enterprise, right? And
your Yeah, exactly. like especially
these enterprise companies. There was
one company we we worked with that were
selling AI drones
>> to the government. It was like one
contract. By the way, that's like story
for another day. It's like how do you
sell AI drones to the government? That
was that was a fun project. But like one
contract was like millions of dollars.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, it's a completely different
shift.
>> And yeah, knowing your numbers is key.
And again, that's that's ties back to
the initial point about the shiny object
because maybe oh, I'm paying 6K and I'm
seeing these folks around here on
LinkedIn saying they're paying $400 for
a meeting. Oh, my campaign suck.
>> No, they don't. Maybe 400 is expensive
for them. Maybe they don't even know it,
right? And yeah, I I think you hit it
perfectly with that example, knowing
knowing your numbers, for sure.
>> Cool. Well, we're at the end of this
episode today. Thank you so much for
being here, guys, and we'll see you in
the next one. Thanks so much for
watching this episode. If today's combo
hit home for you and you want to go
deeper, check out adconversion.com.
You'll find free courses, a killer
advertising community, and if you're
ready to scale, we'd love to work with
you.